# AutoCirque
The AutoCirque Toolbox includes three GIS tools: 1) Cirque Auto-Delineation; 2) Cirque Delineation by Outlet Features; and 3) Cirque Potential Outlet Points. All these tools are written by python and imported into ArcGIS as python script tools. ArcGIS version 10.5 was used to develop these tools is 10.5. Some revisions may be necessary for the most recent ArcGIS versions due to the potential changes in the python and ArcGIS functions.

The Cirque Auto-Delineation is a fully automated tool to delineate cirque outlines. The input parameters include DEM, a minimum elevation for cirques, the minimum source area for stream definition, the minimum source area for a tributary associated with cirque, the minimum and maximum cirque areas, the minimum percentages of steep (>31°) and gentle (<20°) slope areas, and the maximum and minimum headwall slopes for the cirques. The output parameters include the output 3D profiles for each first order stream related to the cirques, the output potential threshold points along the profile, and the output cirque outlines. 

A semi-automatic tool, Cirque Delineation By Outlet Features, is also developed for cirque delineation because the fully automated processes may not effectively delineate some cirques due to the uncertainties in determining the cirque thresholds and the use of area, slope, and circular index to select cirques. For example, the flow accumulation may be too small to extract the first order stream, or the delineated polygon does not meet the criteria associated with the area, slope, and circularity index. The Cirque Delineation by Outlet Features Tool is to delineate the cirques based on the DEM and user specified cirque outlet features (cirque threshold points or the cross sections that define the low margins of the cirques). The input parameters of this tool include DEM, the outlet points or line sections, and the minimum stream source area to define the stream, and the maximum and minimum headwall slopes for the cirques. The output of this tool is the cirque outlines. The tool just uses the provided cirque threshold points or cross sections to determine the cirque outlines. The processes are similar to the last step of the automatic processes. First, the stream network and its corresponding watershed boundary will be extracted for each cirque threshold point or cross section. Then, the slope-based analysis will be used to refine the cirque boundary. 

The cirque threshold points can be prepared by digitizing the points in ArcGIS or Google Earth (then transfer the KML file to ArcGIS). In terms of the cross sections, the user can digitize the linear features in ArcGIS or Google Earth to define the low margins of the cirques. The user can also use the interpolate 3D lines in the 3D Analyst Toolbar in ArcGIS to draw the potential cross sections and then convert the drawn graphic objects to feature classes using the Convert Graphics To Features tool in ArcGIS. 

A Cirque Potential Outlet Points tool is also developed to identify potential knickpoints along the stream profile (the step 1 and 2 in the automatic processes, Fig. 8D). The Cirque Potential Outlet Points tool generates a set of knickpoints along the first order stream, so that the users can select the potential cirque threshold points to delineate the cirques using the above-described Cirque Delineation by Outlet Features Tool (Fig. 8C). This tool includes an input DEM, a minimum elevation for cirques, the minimum source area for stream definition, the minimum source area for a tributary associated with cirque. The output includes the output 3D profiles and the output knickpoints along the profile.
